Add metrics collection and metrics-based dashboards info to RabbitMQ (#4332)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/opentelemetry/rabbitmq-opentelemetry.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/rabbitmq.png')} alt="icon" width="45"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

> The [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html) app is a unified log app. Preconfigured dashboards provide insight into error logs and metrics. RabbitMQ logs and metrics are sent to Sumo Logic through OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html) is a unified log solution that includes preconfigured dashboards offering insights into error logs and metrics. RabbitMQ logs and metrics are transmitted to Sumo Logic via the OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).
```

Author: fixed it

> The Sumo Logic app for [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html) is a unified log solution that includes preconfigured dashboards offering insights into error logs and metrics. RabbitMQ logs and metrics are transmitted to Sumo Logic via the OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

Reviewer 2: this is incorrect. Logs are through filelog receiver and metric will be through rabbit mq receiver

Author: fixed it.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/RabbitMq-OpenTelemetry/RabbitMQ-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for RabbitMQ

Following are the [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) which will be created as part of RabbitMQ App install if not already present.

* **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **rabbitmq**.
* **`messaging.system`**. Fixed value of **rabbitmq**.
* **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the rabbitmq env resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.

> * **`messaging.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to uniquely identify your Rabbitmq cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`messaging.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to uniquely identify your RabbitMQ cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.
```

Author: fixed it.

* **`messaging.node.name`**. Includes the value of the hostname of the machine which is being monitored.

## Prerequisites

### For metrics collection

> This RabbitMQ receiver fetches stats from a RabbitMQ node using the [RabbitMQ Management Plugin](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/management) and converts them to OpenTelemetry metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This RabbitMQ receiver fetches stats from a RabbitMQ node using the [RabbitMQ Management Plugin](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/management) and converts them to OpenTelemetry metrics.
```

Author: fixed it.

> This RabbitMQ receiver fetches stats from a RabbitMQ node using the [RabbitMQ Management Plugin](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/management) and converts them to OpenTelemetry metrics.

Reviewer 2: Can you copy the whole prerequisite section from rabbitmq receiver doc : https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/rabbitmqreceiver#prerequisites

Author: updated it

### For logs collection

This section provides instructions for configuring log collection for RabbitMQ running on a non-Kubernetes environment for the Sumo Logic App for RabbitMQ. By default, RabbitMQ logs are stored in a log file.

Follow the instructions to set up log collection:

> 1. RabbitMQ logs have six levels of verbosity: debug, info, warning, error, critical, none. For details please visit this [page](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html#log-levels). For the dashboards to work properly, log level needs to be set to **debug**. Default log level is **info**. All logging settings are located in [RabbitMQ.conf](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. RabbitMQ logs have six levels of verbosity: debug, info, warning, error, critical, and none. For details, visit the [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html#log-levels). For the dashboards to work properly, the log level needs to be set to **debug**. Default log level is **info**. All logging settings are located in [RabbitMQ.conf](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html).
```

Author: fixed it

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/RabbitMq-OpenTelemetry/RabbitMQ-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

## Fields creation in Sumo Logic for RabbitMQ

Following are the [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) which will be created as part of RabbitMQ App install if not already present.

* **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **rabbitmq**.
* **`messaging.system`**. Fixed value of **rabbitmq**.
* **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the rabbitmq env resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
* **`messaging.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to uniquely identify your RabbitMQ cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.
* **`messaging.node.name`**. Includes the value of the hostname of the machine which is being monitored.

## Prerequisites

### For metrics collection

> The RabbitMQ receiver supports RabbitMQ versions `3.8` and `3.9`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::note
The RabbitMQ receiver supports RabbitMQ versions `3.8` and `3.9`.
:::
```

> The RabbitMQ Management Plugin must be enabled by following the [official instructions](https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html#getting-started).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The RabbitMQ management plugin must be enabled by following the [official instructions](https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html#getting-started).
```

> Also, a user with at least [monitoring](https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html#permissions) level permissions must be used for monitoring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also, make sure you at least have the [monitoring](https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html#permissions) level permissions to monitor the metrics.
```

### For logs collection

This section provides instructions for configuring log collection for RabbitMQ running on a non-Kubernetes environment for the Sumo Logic App for RabbitMQ. By default, RabbitMQ logs are stored in a log file.

Follow the instructions to set up log collection:

> 1. RabbitMQ logs have six levels of verbosity: debug, info, warning, error, critical, and none. For details, visit the [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html#log-levels). For the dashboards to work properly, the log level needs to be set to **debug**. Default log level is **info**. All logging settings are located in [RabbitMQ.conf](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **RabbitMQ logs have six levels of verbosity**. Debug, info, warning, error, critical, and none. For more information, refer to the [RabbitMQ documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html#log-levels). To make sure the dashboard work properly, the log level needs to be set to **debug**. Default log level is **info**. All logging settings are located in [RabbitMQ.conf](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html).
```

### Step 2: Configure integration

OpenTelemetry works with a [configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/) yaml file with all the details concerning the data that needs to be collected. For example, it specifies the location of a log file that is read and sent to the Sumo Logic platform.

In this step, you will configure the yaml file required for RabbitMQ Collection.

Below are the inputs required:

> - **`endpoint (no default)`**. The hostname and port of the RabbitMQ instance, separated by a colon. (For example: `localhost:15672`.)

Reviewer 2: I see in the rabbitmq doc that username and password are required parameters. But here they are not listed. Are we not using them in them in the input configuration ?

Author: Added username and password as required parameters.

- **RabbitMQ logs Path**. Enter the path to the log file for your RabbitMQ instance.

> The log file path configured to capture rabbitmq logs must be given here. The files are typically located in `/var/log/rabbitmq/rabbit@<hostname>.log`. If you are using a customized path, check the [`rabbitmq.conf`](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html) file for this information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The log file path configured to capture RabbitMQ logs must be given here. The files are typically located in `/var/log/rabbitmq/rabbit@<hostname>.log`. If you are using a customized path, check the [`rabbitmq.conf`](https://www.rabbitmq.com/logging.html) file for this information.
```

Author: fixed it.

### Step 2: Configure integration

OpenTelemetry works with a [configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/) yaml file with all the details concerning the data that needs to be collected. For example, it specifies the location of a log file that is read and sent to the Sumo Logic platform.

> In this step, you will configure the yaml file required for RabbitMQ Collection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this step, you will configure the yaml file required for RabbitMQ collection.
```

| parse "* * [*]" as date,time,severity | count by severity
```

### Metrics

> This sample query is from the **RabbitMQ - Metrics dashboard** > **Average Number of Consumers**  panel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This sample query is from the **Average Number of Consumers** panel in **RabbitMQ - Metrics** dashboard.
```

```sql sumo.datasource=rabbitmq metric=rabbitmq.consumer.count deployment.environment=*  messaging.cluster.name=* messaging.node.name=*  rabbitmq.queue.name=* rabbitmq.vhost.name=*
| avg by messaging.cluster.name 
| sum
```

## Viewing RabbitMQ Dashboards

### Logs

> The **RabbitMQ - Logs** dashboard gives you an at-a-glance view of Error messages, error by severity, top and last 10 errors, Broker and Event Start/Add log messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **RabbitMQ - Logs** dashboard gives you an at-a-glance view of error messages, error by severity, top and last 10 errors, broker, and Event Start/Add log messages.
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/RabbitMq-OpenTelemetry/RabbitMQ-Logs.png' alt="RabbitMQ Logs dashboards" />

### Metrics

> The **RabbitMQ - Metrics** dashboard gives you an at-a-glance view of your RabbitMQ deployment across brokers, queue, exchange, consumer, messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **RabbitMQ - Metrics** dashboard gives you an at-a-glance view of your RabbitMQ deployment across brokers, queue, exchange, consumer, and messages.
```
